- [Instructor] Around the same time
the new release cadence was publicized,
a few other substantial changes were announced by Oracle,
regarding JDK support and licensing.
These announcements concerned many Java developers,
making them question whether Java was still free.
Rest assured, Java is still free,
thanks to the OpenJDK Project.
OpenJDK is an open source project
that contains the latest implementation
of the Java platform.
The project is led by Oracle
with participation from other major companies,
such as Red Hat and IBM.
It is important to understand that OpenJDK
is only focused on Java source code,
leaving other organizations
with the task of building JDK binaries
from that source code.
Most popular JDK binary distributions used by developers,
such as the Oracle JDK, AdoptOpenJDK, and others
are based on downstream repos of the OpenJDK source code.
When considering JDK providers,
there are several characteristics that set them apart.
First, some providers may not offer JDK binaries
for every version of Java.
Typically, you can expect most providers
to make binaries available for LTS releases,
such as Java 11.
And a few will offer builds for each Java feature release.
The LTS versions will be suitable for most enterprises
because it is common for large companies to prefer software
with longer lifespans.
Licensing is also an important consideration
because some JDK providers
restrict how their JDKs can be used.
It's not uncommon for a JDK to be free
for development and testing,
but restricted for production usage.
To be used in production,
some licenses may require paid commercial support contracts,
or maybe packaged with other product subscriptions.
For instance, Oracle requires a Java SE subscription
to run the Oracle JDK in production.
While Red Hat packages their OpenJDK distribution
within the Red Hat Enterprise Linux operating system.
Beyond production usage,
the support agreements of different vendors
will vary in what they provide with some offering support
for installations and configurations,
while others will even help debug
and patch production issues.
Finally, the length and availability
of long-term support updates will be different
for each JDK provider.
Most providers use roadmaps
to outline their support timelines
and disclose LTS costs on their website.
It is important to understand long-term support.
So let's discuss in a little bit more detail.
LTS typically consists of updates
that allow an earlier Java version to remain stable
after the OpenJDK Project has shifted their work
to new releases.
LTS updates are important because they allow you
to continue using these earlier versions of Java
with the guarantee that major issues will be addressed.
They typically backport critical security patches
and critical fixes to earlier versions of the JDK,
allowing you to confidently use an LTS release
without having a gaping security hole or major bug.
Updates typically do not backport major features
from the newest versions of Java.
So if you want those,
you'll need to migrate to the latest version.
Don't be concerned about where you'll grab your next JDK
and how much you'll have to pay for it.
The OpenJDK Project and its community
provide many options for a wide range of Java developers.